website/content/docs/upgrading/upgrade-to-1.10.x.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrading to Vault 1.10.x - Guides
description: |-
  This page contains the list of deprecations and important or breaking changes
  for Vault 1.10.x. Please read it carefully.
---

# Overview

This page contains the list of deprecations and important or breaking changes
for Vault 1.10.x compared to 1.9. Please read it carefully.

## SSH Secrets Engine

The new default value of `algorithm_signer` for SSH CA roles has been changed
to `rsa-sha2-256` from `ssh-rsa`. Existing roles will be migrated to
explicitly specify the `algorithm_signer=ssh-rsa` for RSA keys if they used
the implicit (empty) default, but newly created roles will use the new default
value (preferring a literal `default` which presently uses `rsa-sha2-256`).

## Etcd v2 API no longer supported

Support for the Etcd v2 API is removed in Vault 1.10. The Etcd v2 API
was deprecated with the release of [Etcd v3.5](https://etcd.io/blog/2021/announcing-etcd-3.5/),
and will be decommissioned in a forthcoming Etcd release.

Users of the `etcd` storage backend with the etcdv2 API that are
upgrading to Vault 1.10 should [migrate](/docs/commands/operator/migrate)
Vault storage to an Etcd v3 cluster prior to upgrading to Vault 1.10.
All storage migrations should have
[backups](/docs/concepts/storage#backing-up-vault-s-persisted-data)
taken prior to migration.

## OTP Generation Process

Customers passing in OTPs during the process of generating root tokens must modify
the OTP generation to include an additional 2 characters before upgrading so that the
OTP can be xor-ed with the encoded root token. This change was implemented as a result
of the change in the prefix from hvs. to s. for service tokens.

## Token Format Change

Token prefixes were updated to be more easily identifiable.

- Service tokens previously started with s. now start with hvs.
- Batch tokens previously started with b. now start with hvb.
- Recovery tokens previously started with r. now start with hvr.

Additionally, non-root service tokens are now longer than before. Previously, service tokens
were 26 characters; they now have a minimum of 95 characters. However, existing tokens will
still work.

Refer to the [Server Side Consistent Token FAQ](/docs/faq/ssct) for details.

## OIDC Provider Built-in Resources

In Vault 1.9, the [OIDC identity provider](/docs/secrets/identity/oidc-provider) feature
was released as a tech preview. In Vault 1.10, built-in resources were introduced to the
OIDC provider system to reduce configuration steps and enhance usability.

The following built-in resources are included in each Vault namespace starting with Vault
1.10:

 - A `default` OIDC provider that's usable by all client applications
 - A `default` key for signing and verification of ID tokens
 - An `allow_all` assignment which authorizes all Vault entities to authenticate via a
   client application

If you created an [OIDC provider](/api-docs/secret/identity/oidc-provider#create-or-update-a-provider)
with the name `default`, [key](/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#create-a-named-key) with the
name `default`, or [assignment](/api-docs/secret/identity/oidc-provider#create-or-update-an-assignment)
with the name `allow_all` using the Vault 1.9 tech preview, the installation of these built-in
resources will be skipped. We _strongly recommend_ that you delete any existing resources
that have naming collisions before upgrading to Vault 1.10. Failing to delete resources with
naming collisions could result unexpected default behavior. Additionally, we recommend reading
the corresponding details in the OIDC provider [concepts](/docs/concepts/oidc-provider) document
to understand how the built-in resources are used in the system.

## Known Issues

@include 'raft-panic-old-tls-key.mdx'

### Single Vault follower restart causes election even with established quorum

We now support Server Side Consistent Tokens (See [Replication](/docs/configuration/replication) and [Vault Eventual Consistency](/docs/enterprise/consistency)), which introduces a new token format that can only be used on nodes of 1.10 or higher version. This new format is enabled by default upon upgrading to the new version. Old format tokens can be read by Vault 1.10, but the new format Vault 1.10 tokens cannot be read by older Vault versions.

For more details, see the [Server Side Consistent Tokens FAQ](/docs/faq/ssct).

Since service tokens are always created on the leader, as long as the leader is not upgraded before performance standbys, service tokens will be of the old format and still be usable during the upgrade process. However, the usual upgrade process we recommend can't be relied upon to always upgrade the leader last. Due to this known [issue](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/issues/14153), a Vault cluster using Integrated Storage may result in a leader not being upgraded last, and this can trigger a re-election. This re-election can cause the upgraded node to become the leader, resulting in the newly created tokens on the leader to be unusable on nodes that have not yet been upgraded. Note that this issue does not impact Vault OSS users.

We will have a fix for this issue in Vault 1.10.3. Until this issue is fixed, you may be at risk of having performance standbys unable to service requests until all nodes are upgraded. We recommended that you plan for a maintenance window to upgrade.

### Limited policy shows unhelpful message in UI after mounting a secret engine

When a user has a policy that allows creating a secret engine but not reading it, after successful creation, the user sees a message n is undefined instead of a permissions error. We will have a fix for this issue in an upcoming minor release.

### Adding/Modifying Duo MFA method for Enterprise MFA triggers a panic error

When adding or modifying a Duo MFA method for step-up Enterprise MFA using the `sys/mfa/method/duo` endpoint, a panic gets triggered due to a missing schema field. We will have a fix for this in Vault 1.10.1. Until this issue is fixed, avoid making any changes to your Duo configuration if you are upgrading Vault to v1.10.0.

### Sign in to UI using OIDC auth method results in an error

Signing in to the Vault UI using an OIDC auth mount listed in the "tabs" of the form will result
in the following error: "Authentication failed: role with oidc role_type is not allowed".
The auth mounts listed in the "tabs" of the form are those that have [listing_visibility](/api-docs/system/auth#listing_visibility-1)
set to `unauth`.

There is a workaround for this error that will allow you to sign in to Vault using the OIDC
auth method. Select the "Other" tab instead of selecting the specific OIDC auth mount tab.
From there, select "OIDC" from the "Method" select box and proceed to sign in to Vault.

### Login MFA not enforced after restart

A serious bug was identified in the Login MFA feature introduced in 1.10.0:
[#15108](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/issues/15108).
Upon restart, Vault is not populating its in-memory MFA data structures based
on what is found in storage. Although Vault is persisting to storage MFA methods
and login enforcement configs populated via /identity/mfa, they will effectively
disappear after the process is restarted.

We plan to issue a new 1.10.3 release to address this soon. We recommend delaying
any rollouts of Login MFA until that release.

Commit message:

Add details to CHANGELOG and 1.10 upgrade note regarding new 412 error response resulting from SSCTs. (#15770)

website/content/docs/upgrading/upgrade-to-1.10.x.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrading to Vault 1.10.x - Guides
description: |-
  This page contains the list of deprecations and important or breaking changes
  for Vault 1.10.x. Please read it carefully.
---

# Overview

This page contains the list of deprecations and important or breaking changes
for Vault 1.10.x compared to 1.9. Please read it carefully.

## SSH Secrets Engine

The new default value of `algorithm_signer` for SSH CA roles has been changed
to `rsa-sha2-256` from `ssh-rsa`. Existing roles will be migrated to
explicitly specify the `algorithm_signer=ssh-rsa` for RSA keys if they used
the implicit (empty) default, but newly created roles will use the new default
value (preferring a literal `default` which presently uses `rsa-sha2-256`).

## Etcd v2 API no longer supported

Support for the Etcd v2 API is removed in Vault 1.10. The Etcd v2 API
was deprecated with the release of [Etcd v3.5](https://etcd.io/blog/2021/announcing-etcd-3.5/),
and will be decommissioned in a forthcoming Etcd release.

Users of the `etcd` storage backend with the etcdv2 API that are
upgrading to Vault 1.10 should [migrate](/docs/commands/operator/migrate)
Vault storage to an Etcd v3 cluster prior to upgrading to Vault 1.10.
All storage migrations should have
[backups](/docs/concepts/storage#backing-up-vault-s-persisted-data)
taken prior to migration.

## OTP Generation Process

Customers passing in OTPs during the process of generating root tokens must modify
the OTP generation to include an additional 2 characters before upgrading so that the
OTP can be xor-ed with the encoded root token. This change was implemented as a result
of the change in the prefix from hvs. to s. for service tokens.

## New error response for login requests to perf standbys lagging behind active node

The introduction of [Server Side Consistent Tokens](/docs/faq/ssct) means that
when issuing a request to a perf standby right after having obtained a token (e.g.
via login), if the token and its lease haven't yet been replicated to the perf
standby, an HTTP 412 error will be returned.  Before 1.10.0 this typically would've
resulted in a 400, 403, or 50x response.

## Token Format Change

Token prefixes were updated to be more easily identifiable.

- Service tokens previously started with s. now start with hvs.
- Batch tokens previously started with b. now start with hvb.
- Recovery tokens previously started with r. now start with hvr.

Additionally, non-root service tokens are now longer than before. Previously, service tokens
were 26 characters; they now have a minimum of 95 characters. However, existing tokens will
still work.

Refer to the [Server Side Consistent Token FAQ](/docs/faq/ssct) for details.

## OIDC Provider Built-in Resources

In Vault 1.9, the [OIDC identity provider](/docs/secrets/identity/oidc-provider) feature
was released as a tech preview. In Vault 1.10, built-in resources were introduced to the
OIDC provider system to reduce configuration steps and enhance usability.

The following built-in resources are included in each Vault namespace starting with Vault
1.10:

 - A `default` OIDC provider that's usable by all client applications
 - A `default` key for signing and verification of ID tokens
 - An `allow_all` assignment which authorizes all Vault entities to authenticate via a
   client application

If you created an [OIDC provider](/api-docs/secret/identity/oidc-provider#create-or-update-a-provider)
with the name `default`, [key](/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#create-a-named-key) with the
name `default`, or [assignment](/api-docs/secret/identity/oidc-provider#create-or-update-an-assignment)
with the name `allow_all` using the Vault 1.9 tech preview, the installation of these built-in
resources will be skipped. We _strongly recommend_ that you delete any existing resources
that have naming collisions before upgrading to Vault 1.10. Failing to delete resources with
naming collisions could result unexpected default behavior. Additionally, we recommend reading
the corresponding details in the OIDC provider [concepts](/docs/concepts/oidc-provider) document
to understand how the built-in resources are used in the system.

## Known Issues

@include 'raft-panic-old-tls-key.mdx'

### Single Vault follower restart causes election even with established quorum

We now support Server Side Consistent Tokens (See [Replication](/docs/configuration/replication) and [Vault Eventual Consistency](/docs/enterprise/consistency)), which introduces a new token format that can only be used on nodes of 1.10 or higher version. This new format is enabled by default upon upgrading to the new version. Old format tokens can be read by Vault 1.10, but the new format Vault 1.10 tokens cannot be read by older Vault versions.

For more details, see the [Server Side Consistent Tokens FAQ](/docs/faq/ssct).

Since service tokens are always created on the leader, as long as the leader is not upgraded before performance standbys, service tokens will be of the old format and still be usable during the upgrade process. However, the usual upgrade process we recommend can't be relied upon to always upgrade the leader last. Due to this known [issue](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/issues/14153), a Vault cluster using Integrated Storage may result in a leader not being upgraded last, and this can trigger a re-election. This re-election can cause the upgraded node to become the leader, resulting in the newly created tokens on the leader to be unusable on nodes that have not yet been upgraded. Note that this issue does not impact Vault OSS users.

We will have a fix for this issue in Vault 1.10.3. Until this issue is fixed, you may be at risk of having performance standbys unable to service requests until all nodes are upgraded. We recommended that you plan for a maintenance window to upgrade.

### Limited policy shows unhelpful message in UI after mounting a secret engine

When a user has a policy that allows creating a secret engine but not reading it, after successful creation, the user sees a message n is undefined instead of a permissions error. We will have a fix for this issue in an upcoming minor release.

### Adding/Modifying Duo MFA method for Enterprise MFA triggers a panic error

When adding or modifying a Duo MFA method for step-up Enterprise MFA using the `sys/mfa/method/duo` endpoint, a panic gets triggered due to a missing schema field. We will have a fix for this in Vault 1.10.1. Until this issue is fixed, avoid making any changes to your Duo configuration if you are upgrading Vault to v1.10.0.

### Sign in to UI using OIDC auth method results in an error

Signing in to the Vault UI using an OIDC auth mount listed in the "tabs" of the form will result
in the following error: "Authentication failed: role with oidc role_type is not allowed".
The auth mounts listed in the "tabs" of the form are those that have [listing_visibility](/api-docs/system/auth#listing_visibility-1)
set to `unauth`.

There is a workaround for this error that will allow you to sign in to Vault using the OIDC
auth method. Select the "Other" tab instead of selecting the specific OIDC auth mount tab.
From there, select "OIDC" from the "Method" select box and proceed to sign in to Vault.

### Login MFA not enforced after restart

A serious bug was identified in the Login MFA feature introduced in 1.10.0:
[#15108](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/issues/15108).
Upon restart, Vault is not populating its in-memory MFA data structures based
on what is found in storage. Although Vault is persisting to storage MFA methods
and login enforcement configs populated via /identity/mfa, they will effectively
disappear after the process is restarted.

We plan to issue a new 1.10.3 release to address this soon. We recommend delaying
any rollouts of Login MFA until that release.
