website/content/docs/enterprise/fips/fips1402.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault Enterprise FIPS 140-2 Inside
description: |-
  Vault Enterprise features a special build with FIPS 140-2 support built into
  the Vault binary. This can directly be used for FIPS compliance.
---

# FIPS 140-2 Inside

-> **Note**: This feature requires [Vault Enterprise Plus](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault/).

Special builds of Vault Enterprise (marked with a `fips1402` feature name)
include built-in support for FIPS 140-2 compliance. Unlike using Seal Wrap
for FIPS compliance, this binary has no external dependencies on a HSM.

To use this feature, you must have an active or trial license for Vault
Enterprise Plus (HSMs). To start a trial, contact [HashiCorp
sales](mailto:sales@hashicorp.com).

## Using FIPS 140-2 Vault Enterprise

FIPS 140-2 Inside versions of Vault Enterprise behave like non-FIPS versions
of Vault. No restrictions are placed on algorithms; it is up to the operator
to ensure Vault remains in a FIPS-compliant mode of operation. This means
configuring some Secrets Engines to permit a limited set of algorithms (e.g.,
forbidding ed25519-based CAs with PKI Secrets Engines).

Because Vault Enterprise may return secrets in plain text, it is important to
ensure the Vault server's `listener` configuration section utilizes TLS. This
ensures secrets are transmitted securely from Server to Client. Additionally,
note that TLSv1.3 will not work with FIPS 140-2 Inside, as HKDF is not a
certified primitive. If TLSv1.3 is desired, it is suggested to front Vault
Server with a FIPS-certified load balancer.

A non-exhaustive list of potential compliance issues include:

 - Using Ed25519 or ChaCha20+Poly1305 keys with the Transit Secrets Engine,
 - Using Ed25519 keys as CAs in the PKI or SSH Secrets Engines,
 - Using FF3-1/FPE in Transform Secrets Engine, or
 - Using a Derived Key (using HKDF) for Agent auto-authing or the Transit
   Secrets Engine.

Hashicorp can only provide general guidance regarding using Vault Enterprise
in a FIPS-compliant manner. We are not a NIST-certified testing laboratory
and thus organizations may need to consult an approved auditor for final
information.

## Technical Details

Vault Enterprise's FIPS 140-2 Inside binaries rely on a special version of the
Go toolchain which include a FIPS-validated BoringCrypto version. To ensure
your version of Vault Enterprise includes FIPS support, after starting the
server, make sure you see a line with `Fips: Enabled`, such as:

```
                    Fips: FIPS 140-2 Enabled, BoringCrypto version 7
```

~> **Note**: FIPS 140-2 Inside binaries depend on cgo, which require that a
   GNU C Library (glibc) Linux distribution be used to run Vault. We've
   additionally opted to certify only on the AMD64 architecture at this time.
   This means these binaries will not work on Alpine Linux based containers.

### FIPS 140-2 Inside and External Plugins

Vault Enterprise's built-in plugins are compiled into the Vault binary using
the same Go toolchain version that compiled the core Vault; this results in
these plugins having FIPS 140-2 compliance status as well. This same guarantee
does not apply to external plugins.

### Validating FIPS 140-2 Inside

To validate that the FIPS 140-2 Inside binary correctly includes BoringCrypto,
run `go tool nm` on the binary to get a symbol dump. On non-FIPS builds,
searching for `goboringcrypto` in the output will yield no results, but on
FIPS-enabled builds, you'll see many results with this:

```
$ go tool nm vault | grep -i goboringcrypto
  4014d0 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_cbc_encrypt
  4014f0 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_ctr128_encrypt
  401520 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_decrypt
  401540 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_encrypt
  401560 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_set_decrypt_key
...additional lines elided...
```

All FIPS cryptographic modules must execute startup tests. BoringCrypto uses
the `_goboringcrypto_BORINGSSL_bcm_power_on_self_test` symbol for this. To
ensure the Vault Enterprise binary is correctly executing startup tests, use
[GDB](https://www.sourceware.org/gdb/) to stop execution on this function to
ensure it gets hit.

```
$ gdb --args vault server -dev
...GDB startup messages elided...
(gdb) break _goboringcrypto_BORINGSSL_bcm_power_on_self_test
...breakpoint location elided...
(gdb) run
...additional GDB output elided...
Thread 1 "vault" hit Breakpoint 1, 0x0000000000454950 in _goboringcrypto_BORINGSSL_bcm_power_on_self_test ()
(gdb) backtrace
#0  0x0000000000454950 in _goboringcrypto_BORINGSSL_bcm_power_on_self_test ()
#1  0x00000000005da8f0 in runtime.asmcgocall () at /usr/local/hashicorp-fips-go-devel/src/runtime/asm_amd64.s:765
#2  0x00007fffd07a5a18 in ?? ()
#3  0x00007fffffffdf28 in ?? ()
#4  0x000000000057ebce in runtime.persistentalloc.func1 () at /usr/local/hashicorp-fips-go-devel/src/runtime/malloc.go:1371
#5  0x00000000005d8a49 in runtime.systemstack () at /usr/local/hashicorp-fips-go-devel/src/runtime/asm_amd64.s:383
#6  0x00000000005dd189 in runtime.newproc (siz=6129989, fn=0x5d88fb <runtime.rt0_go+315>) at <autogenerated>:1
#7  0x0000000000000000 in ?? ()
```

Exact output may vary.

<div {...{"className":"alert alert-warning g-type-body"}}>

**Note**: When executing Vault Enterprise within GDB, GDB must rewrite
parts of the binary to permit stopping on the specified breakpoint. This
results in the HMAC of the contained BoringCrypto library changing,
breaking the FIPS integrity check. If execution were to be continued
in the example above via the `continue` command, a message like the
following would be emitted:

```
Continuing.
FIPS integrity test failed.
Expected: 18d35ae031f649825a4269d68d2e62583d060a31d359690f97b9c8bf8120cdf75b405f74be7018094da7eb5261f2f86d0f481cc3b5a9c7c432268d94bf91aad9
Calculated: 111502a3201de3b23f54b29d79ca6a1a754f94ecfc57a379444aac0d3ada68bf3c06834e6d84e68599bdf763e28e2c994fcdaeac84adabd180b59cad5fc980bb

Thread 1 "vault" received signal SIGABRT, Aborted.
```

This is expected. Rerunning Vault without GDB (or with no breakpoints
set -- e.g., `delete 1`) will still result in this function executing, but
with the FIPS integrity check succeeding.

</div>

### BoringCrypto Certification

BoringCrypto Version 7 uses the following FIPS 140-2 Certificate and software
version:

 - NIST CMVP [Certificate #3678](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Cryptographic-Module-Validation-Program/Certificate/3678).
 - BoringSSL Release [`ae223d6138807a13006342edfeef32e813246b39`](https://github.com/google/boringssl/commit/ae223d6138807a13006342edfeef32e813246b39).

The following algorithms were certified as part of this release:

 - RSA in all key sizes greater than or equal to 2048 bits (tested at 2048
   and 3072 bits),
 - ECDSA and ECDH with P-224 (not accessible from Vault), P-256, P-384, and
   P-521,
 - AES symmetric encryption with 128/192/256-bit CBC, ECB, and CRT modes and
   128/256-bit GCM modes,
 - SHA-1 and SHA-2 (224, 256,384, and 512-bit variants),
 - HMAC+SHA-2 with 224, 256, 384, and 512-bit variants of SHA-2,
 - TLSv1.0/TLSv1.1 and TLSv1.2 KDFs,
 - AES-256 based CRT_DRBG CS-PRNG.

Commit message:

Update FIPS documentation to clarify mlock (#15502)
This clarifies a limitation of the FIPS based container images,
to note that due to OpenShift requirements, we need to suggest
ways of disabling mlock or allowing Vault to set mlock.

website/content/docs/enterprise/fips/fips1402.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault Enterprise FIPS 140-2 Inside
description: |-
  Vault Enterprise features a special build with FIPS 140-2 support built into
  the Vault binary. This can directly be used for FIPS compliance.
---

# FIPS 140-2 Inside

-> **Note**: This feature requires [Vault Enterprise Plus](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault/).

Special builds of Vault Enterprise (marked with a `fips1402` feature name)
include built-in support for FIPS 140-2 compliance. Unlike using Seal Wrap
for FIPS compliance, this binary has no external dependencies on a HSM.

To use this feature, you must have an active or trial license for Vault
Enterprise Plus (HSMs). To start a trial, contact [HashiCorp
sales](mailto:sales@hashicorp.com).

## Using FIPS 140-2 Vault Enterprise

FIPS 140-2 Inside versions of Vault Enterprise behave like non-FIPS versions
of Vault. No restrictions are placed on algorithms; it is up to the operator
to ensure Vault remains in a FIPS-compliant mode of operation. This means
configuring some Secrets Engines to permit a limited set of algorithms (e.g.,
forbidding ed25519-based CAs with PKI Secrets Engines).

Because Vault Enterprise may return secrets in plain text, it is important to
ensure the Vault server's `listener` configuration section utilizes TLS. This
ensures secrets are transmitted securely from Server to Client. Additionally,
note that TLSv1.3 will not work with FIPS 140-2 Inside, as HKDF is not a
certified primitive. If TLSv1.3 is desired, it is suggested to front Vault
Server with a FIPS-certified load balancer.

A non-exhaustive list of potential compliance issues include:

 - Using Ed25519 or ChaCha20+Poly1305 keys with the Transit Secrets Engine,
 - Using Ed25519 keys as CAs in the PKI or SSH Secrets Engines,
 - Using FF3-1/FPE in Transform Secrets Engine, or
 - Using a Derived Key (using HKDF) for Agent auto-authing or the Transit
   Secrets Engine.

Hashicorp can only provide general guidance regarding using Vault Enterprise
in a FIPS-compliant manner. We are not a NIST-certified testing laboratory
and thus organizations may need to consult an approved auditor for final
information.

~> **Note**: When pulling the FIPS UBI-based images, note that they are
   ultimately designed for OpenShift certification; consider either adding
   the `--user root --cap-add IPC_LOCK` options, to allow Vault to enable
   mlock, or use the `--env SKIP_SETCAP=1` option, to disable mlock
   completely, as appropriate for your environment.

## Technical Details

Vault Enterprise's FIPS 140-2 Inside binaries rely on a special version of the
Go toolchain which include a FIPS-validated BoringCrypto version. To ensure
your version of Vault Enterprise includes FIPS support, after starting the
server, make sure you see a line with `Fips: Enabled`, such as:

```
                    Fips: FIPS 140-2 Enabled, BoringCrypto version 7
```

~> **Note**: FIPS 140-2 Inside binaries depend on cgo, which require that a
   GNU C Library (glibc) Linux distribution be used to run Vault. We've
   additionally opted to certify only on the AMD64 architecture at this time.
   This means these binaries will not work on Alpine Linux based containers.

### FIPS 140-2 Inside and External Plugins

Vault Enterprise's built-in plugins are compiled into the Vault binary using
the same Go toolchain version that compiled the core Vault; this results in
these plugins having FIPS 140-2 compliance status as well. This same guarantee
does not apply to external plugins.

### Validating FIPS 140-2 Inside

To validate that the FIPS 140-2 Inside binary correctly includes BoringCrypto,
run `go tool nm` on the binary to get a symbol dump. On non-FIPS builds,
searching for `goboringcrypto` in the output will yield no results, but on
FIPS-enabled builds, you'll see many results with this:

```
$ go tool nm vault | grep -i goboringcrypto
  4014d0 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_cbc_encrypt
  4014f0 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_ctr128_encrypt
  401520 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_decrypt
  401540 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_encrypt
  401560 T _cgo_6880f0fbb71e_Cfunc__goboringcrypto_AES_set_decrypt_key
...additional lines elided...
```

All FIPS cryptographic modules must execute startup tests. BoringCrypto uses
the `_goboringcrypto_BORINGSSL_bcm_power_on_self_test` symbol for this. To
ensure the Vault Enterprise binary is correctly executing startup tests, use
[GDB](https://www.sourceware.org/gdb/) to stop execution on this function to
ensure it gets hit.

```
$ gdb --args vault server -dev
...GDB startup messages elided...
(gdb) break _goboringcrypto_BORINGSSL_bcm_power_on_self_test
...breakpoint location elided...
(gdb) run
...additional GDB output elided...
Thread 1 "vault" hit Breakpoint 1, 0x0000000000454950 in _goboringcrypto_BORINGSSL_bcm_power_on_self_test ()
(gdb) backtrace
#0  0x0000000000454950 in _goboringcrypto_BORINGSSL_bcm_power_on_self_test ()
#1  0x00000000005da8f0 in runtime.asmcgocall () at /usr/local/hashicorp-fips-go-devel/src/runtime/asm_amd64.s:765
#2  0x00007fffd07a5a18 in ?? ()
#3  0x00007fffffffdf28 in ?? ()
#4  0x000000000057ebce in runtime.persistentalloc.func1 () at /usr/local/hashicorp-fips-go-devel/src/runtime/malloc.go:1371
#5  0x00000000005d8a49 in runtime.systemstack () at /usr/local/hashicorp-fips-go-devel/src/runtime/asm_amd64.s:383
#6  0x00000000005dd189 in runtime.newproc (siz=6129989, fn=0x5d88fb <runtime.rt0_go+315>) at <autogenerated>:1
#7  0x0000000000000000 in ?? ()
```

Exact output may vary.

<div {...{"className":"alert alert-warning g-type-body"}}>

**Note**: When executing Vault Enterprise within GDB, GDB must rewrite
parts of the binary to permit stopping on the specified breakpoint. This
results in the HMAC of the contained BoringCrypto library changing,
breaking the FIPS integrity check. If execution were to be continued
in the example above via the `continue` command, a message like the
following would be emitted:

```
Continuing.
FIPS integrity test failed.
Expected: 18d35ae031f649825a4269d68d2e62583d060a31d359690f97b9c8bf8120cdf75b405f74be7018094da7eb5261f2f86d0f481cc3b5a9c7c432268d94bf91aad9
Calculated: 111502a3201de3b23f54b29d79ca6a1a754f94ecfc57a379444aac0d3ada68bf3c06834e6d84e68599bdf763e28e2c994fcdaeac84adabd180b59cad5fc980bb

Thread 1 "vault" received signal SIGABRT, Aborted.
```

This is expected. Rerunning Vault without GDB (or with no breakpoints
set -- e.g., `delete 1`) will still result in this function executing, but
with the FIPS integrity check succeeding.

</div>

### BoringCrypto Certification

BoringCrypto Version 7 uses the following FIPS 140-2 Certificate and software
version:

 - NIST CMVP [Certificate #3678](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Cryptographic-Module-Validation-Program/Certificate/3678).
 - BoringSSL Release [`ae223d6138807a13006342edfeef32e813246b39`](https://github.com/google/boringssl/commit/ae223d6138807a13006342edfeef32e813246b39).

The following algorithms were certified as part of this release:

 - RSA in all key sizes greater than or equal to 2048 bits (tested at 2048
   and 3072 bits),
 - ECDSA and ECDH with P-224 (not accessible from Vault), P-256, P-384, and
   P-521,
 - AES symmetric encryption with 128/192/256-bit CBC, ECB, and CRT modes and
   128/256-bit GCM modes,
 - SHA-1 and SHA-2 (224, 256,384, and 512-bit variants),
 - HMAC+SHA-2 with 224, 256, 384, and 512-bit variants of SHA-2,
 - TLSv1.0/TLSv1.1 and TLSv1.2 KDFs,
 - AES-256 based CRT_DRBG CS-PRNG.
