website/content/api-docs/system/monitor.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/monitor - HTTP API
description: The `/sys/monitor` endpoint is used to receive streaming logs from the Vault server.
---

# `/sys/monitor`

The `/sys/monitor` endpoint is used to receive streaming logs from the Vault server.

If Vault is emitting log messages faster than a receiver can process them, then
some log lines will be dropped.

## Monitor system logs

This endpoint streams logs back to the client from Vault. Note that unlike most API endpoints in Vault, this one
does not return JSON by default. This will send back data in whatever log format Vault has been configured with. By
default, this is text.

| Method | Path           |
| :----- | :------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/monitor` |

### Parameters

- `log_level` `(string: "info")` – Specifies the log level to use when streaming logs. This defaults to `info`
  if not specified.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    'http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/monitor?log_level=debug'
```

### Sample Response

```
2020-09-15T11:28:09.188-0700 [INFO]  core: successful mount: namespace= path=foo/ type=kv
2020-09-15T11:28:18.265-0700 [DEBUG] core.secrets.deletion: clearing view: namespace=root path=foo/ total_keys=0
2020-09-15T11:28:18.265-0700 [DEBUG] core.secrets.deletion: view cleared: namespace=root path=foo/
2020-09-15T11:28:18.265-0700 [INFO]  core: successfully unmounted: path=foo/ namespace=
```

Commit message:

api/monitor: Adding log format to monitor command and debug (#15536)
* Correct handling of "unspecified" log level

* Setting log-format default on monitor path

* Create changelog file

* Update website/content/api-docs/system/monitor.mdx

Co-authored-by: Chris Capurso <1036769+ccapurso@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Chris Capurso <1036769+ccapurso@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/monitor.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/monitor - HTTP API
description: The `/sys/monitor` endpoint is used to receive streaming logs from the Vault server.
---

# `/sys/monitor`

The `/sys/monitor` endpoint is used to receive streaming logs from the Vault server.

If Vault is emitting log messages faster than a receiver can process them, then
some log lines will be dropped.

## Monitor system logs

This endpoint streams logs back to the client from Vault. Note that unlike most API endpoints in Vault, this one
does not return JSON by default. This will send back data in whatever log format Vault has been configured with. By
default, this is text.

| Method | Path           |
| :----- | :------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/monitor` |

### Parameters

- `log_level` `(string: "info")` – Specifies the log level to use when streaming logs. This defaults to `info`
  if not specified.

- `log_format` `(string: "standard")` – Specifies the log format to emit when streaming logs. Supported values are "standard" and "json". The default is `standard`.
if not specified.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    'http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/monitor?log_level=debug'
```

### Sample Response

```
2020-09-15T11:28:09.188-0700 [INFO]  core: successful mount: namespace= path=foo/ type=kv
2020-09-15T11:28:18.265-0700 [DEBUG] core.secrets.deletion: clearing view: namespace=root path=foo/ total_keys=0
2020-09-15T11:28:18.265-0700 [DEBUG] core.secrets.deletion: view cleared: namespace=root path=foo/
2020-09-15T11:28:18.265-0700 [INFO]  core: successfully unmounted: path=foo/ namespace=
```
