website/content/api-docs/system/tools.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/tools - HTTP API
description: This is the API documentation for a general set of crypto  tools.
---

# `/sys/tools`

The `/sys/tools` endpoints are a general set of tools.

## Generate Random Bytes

This endpoint returns high-quality random bytes of the specified length.

| Method | Path                                   |
| :----- | :------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/tools/random(/:source)(/:bytes)` |

### Parameters

- `bytes` `(int: 32)` – Specifies the number of bytes to return. This value can
  be specified either in the request body, or as a part of the URL.

- `format` `(string: "base64")` – Specifies the output encoding. Valid options
  are `hex` or `base64`.

- `source` `(string: "platform")` - Specifies the source of the requested bytes.
  `platform`, the default, sources bytes from the platform's entropy source. 
  `seal` sources from entropy augmentation (enterprise only).
  `all` mixes bytes from all available sources.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "format": "hex"
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/tools/random/164
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "random_bytes": "dGhlIHF1aWNrIGJyb3duIGZveAo="
  }
}
```

## Hash Data

This endpoint returns the cryptographic hash of given data using the specified
algorithm.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- | :----------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/tools/hash(/:algorithm)` |

### Parameters

- `algorithm` `(string: "sha2-256")` – Specifies the hash algorithm to use. This
  can also be specified as part of the URL. Currently-supported algorithms are:

  - `sha2-224`
  - `sha2-256`
  - `sha2-384`
  - `sha2-512`
  - `sha3-224`
  - `sha3-256`
  - `sha3-384`
  - `sha3-512`

- `input` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the **base64 encoded** input data.

- `format` `(string: "hex")` – Specifies the output encoding. This can be either
  `hex` or `base64`.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "input": "adba32=="
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/tools/hash/sha2-512
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "sum": "dGhlIHF1aWNrIGJyb3duIGZveAo="
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Start documentation for FIPS variants of Vault Enterprise (#15475)
* Begin restructuring FIPS documentation

This creates a new FIPS category under Enterprise and copies the
FIPS-specific seal wrap documentation into it.

We leave the existing Seal Wrap page at the old path, but document that
the FIPS-specific portions of it have moved.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <alex.scheel@hashicorp.com>

* Add initial FIPS 140-2 inside documentation

This documents the new FIPS 140-2 Inside binary and how to use and
validate it. This also documents which algorithms are certified for
use in the BoringCrypto distribution.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <alex.scheel@hashicorp.com>

* Add notes about FIPS algorithm restrictions

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <alex.scheel@hashicorp.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/tools.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/tools - HTTP API
description: This is the API documentation for a general set of crypto  tools.
---

# `/sys/tools`

The `/sys/tools` endpoints are a general set of tools.

## Generate Random Bytes

This endpoint returns high-quality random bytes of the specified length.

| Method | Path                                   |
| :----- | :------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/tools/random(/:source)(/:bytes)` |

### Parameters

- `bytes` `(int: 32)` – Specifies the number of bytes to return. This value can
  be specified either in the request body, or as a part of the URL.

- `format` `(string: "base64")` – Specifies the output encoding. Valid options
  are `hex` or `base64`.

- `source` `(string: "platform")` - Specifies the source of the requested bytes.
  `platform`, the default, sources bytes from the platform's entropy source. 
  `seal` sources from entropy augmentation (enterprise only).
  `all` mixes bytes from all available sources.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "format": "hex"
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/tools/random/164
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "random_bytes": "dGhlIHF1aWNrIGJyb3duIGZveAo="
  }
}
```

## Hash Data

This endpoint returns the cryptographic hash of given data using the specified
algorithm.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- | :----------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/tools/hash(/:algorithm)` |

### Parameters

- `algorithm` `(string: "sha2-256")` – Specifies the hash algorithm to use. This
  can also be specified as part of the URL. Currently-supported algorithms are:

  - `sha2-224`
  - `sha2-256`
  - `sha2-384`
  - `sha2-512`
  - `sha3-224`
  - `sha3-256`
  - `sha3-384`
  - `sha3-512`

  ~> **Note**: In FIPS 140-2 mode, the following algorithms are not certified
     and thus should not be used: `sha3-224`, `sha3-256`, `sha3-384`, and
     `sha3-512`.

- `input` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the **base64 encoded** input data.

- `format` `(string: "hex")` – Specifies the output encoding. This can be either
  `hex` or `base64`.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "input": "adba32=="
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/tools/hash/sha2-512
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "sum": "dGhlIHF1aWNrIGJyb3duIGZveAo="
  }
}
```
