website/content/docs/platform/k8s/helm/openshift.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Running Vault - OpenShift
description: >-
  Vault can run directly on OpenShift in various configurations.  For
  pure-OpenShift workloads, this enables Vault to also exist purely within
  Kubernetes.
---

# Run Vault on OpenShift

The following documentation describes installing, running, and using
Vault and **Vault Agent Injector** on OpenShift.

~> **Note:** We recommend using the Vault agent injector on Openshift
instead of the Secrets Store CSI driver. OpenShift
[does not recommend](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-hostpath.html)
using `hostPath` mounting in production or
[certify Helm charts](https://github.com/redhat-certification/chart-verifier/blob/dbf89bff2d09142e4709d689a9f4037a739c2244/docs/helm-chart-checks.md#table-2-helm-chart-default-checks)
using CSI objects because pods must run as privileged. If you would like to run the Secrets Store
CSI driver on a development or testing cluster, refer to
[installation instructions for the Vault CSI provider](/docs/platform/k8s/csi/installation).

## Requirements

The following are required to install Vault and Vault Agent Injector
on OpenShift:

- Cluster Admin privileges to bind the `auth-delegator` role to Vault's service account
- Helm v3
- OpenShift 4.X
- Vault Helm v0.6.0+
- Vault K8s v0.4.0+

~> **Note:** Support for Consul on OpenShift is available since [Consul 1.9](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/introducing-openshift-support-for-consul-on-kubernetes). However, for highly available
deployments, Raft integrated storage is recommended.

## Additional Resources

The documentation, configuration and examples for Vault Helm and Vault K8s Agent Injector
are applicable to OpenShift installations. For more examples see the existing documentation:

- [Vault Helm documentation](/docs/platform/k8s/helm)
- [Vault K8s documentation](/docs/platform/k8s/injector)

## Helm Chart

The [Vault Helm chart](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-helm)
is the recommended way to install and configure Vault on OpenShift.
In addition to running Vault itself, the Helm chart is the primary
method for installing and configuring Vault Agent Injection Mutating
Webhook.

While the Helm chart automatically sets up complex resources and exposes the
configuration to meet your requirements, it **does not automatically operate
Vault.** You are still responsible for learning how to monitor, backup, upgrade,
etc. the Vault cluster.

~> **Security Warning:** By default, the chart runs in standalone mode. This
mode uses a single Vault server with a file storage backend. This is a less
secure and less resilient installation that is **NOT** appropriate for a
production setup. It is highly recommended to use a [properly secured Kubernetes
cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/securing-a-cluster/),
[learn the available configuration
options](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/configuration), and read the [production deployment
checklist](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run#architecture).

## How-To

### Install Vault

To use the Helm chart, add the Hashicorp helm repository and check that you have
access to the chart:

@include 'helm/repo.mdx'

-> **Important:** The Helm chart is new and under significant development.
Please always run Helm with `--dry-run` before any install or upgrade to verify
changes.

Use `helm install` to install the latest release of the Vault Helm chart.

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault
```

Or install a specific version of the chart.

@include 'helm/install.mdx'

The `helm install` command accepts parameters to override default configuration
values inline or defined in a file. For all OpenShift deployments, `global.openshift`
should be set to `true`.

Override the `server.dev.enabled` configuration value:

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
    --set "global.openshift=true" \
    --set "server.dev.enabled=true"
```

Override all the configuration found in a file:

```shell-session
$ cat override-values.yml
global:
  openshift: true

server:
  ha:
    enabled: true
    replicas: 5
##
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
    --values override-values.yml
```

#### Dev mode

The Helm chart may run a Vault server in development. This installs a single
Vault server with a memory storage backend.

-> **Dev mode:** This is ideal for learning and demonstration environments but
NOT recommended for a production environment.

Install the latest Vault Helm chart in development mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
    --set "global.openshift=true" \
    --set "server.dev.enabled=true"
```

#### Highly Available Raft Mode

The following creates a Vault cluster using the Raft integrated storage backend.

Install the latest Vault Helm chart in HA Raft mode:

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
  --set='global.openshift=true' \
  --set='server.ha.enabled=true' \
  --set='server.ha.raft.enabled=true'
```

Next, initialize and unseal `vault-0` pod:

```shell-session
$ oc exec -ti vault-0 -- vault operator init
$ oc exec -ti vault-0 -- vault operator unseal
```

Finally, join the remaining pods to the Raft cluster and unseal them. The pods
will need to communicate directly so we'll configure the pods to use the internal
service provided by the Helm chart:

```shell-session
$ oc exec -ti vault-1 -- vault operator raft join http://vault-0.vault-internal:8200
$ oc exec -ti vault-1 -- vault operator unseal

$ oc exec -ti vault-2 -- vault operator raft join http://vault-0.vault-internal:8200
$ oc exec -ti vault-2 -- vault operator unseal
```

To verify if the Raft cluster has successfully been initialized, run the following.

First, login using the `root` token on the `vault-0` pod:

```shell-session
$ oc exec -ti vault-0 -- vault login
```

Next, list all the raft peers:

```shell-session
$ oc exec -ti vault-0 -- vault operator raft list-peers

Node                                    Address                        State       Voter
----                                    -------                        -----       -----
a1799962-8711-7f28-23f0-cea05c8a527d    vault-0.vault-internal:8201    leader      true
e6876c97-aaaa-a92e-b99a-0aafab105745    vault-1.vault-internal:8201    follower    true
4b5d7383-ff31-44df-e008-6a606828823b    vault-2.vault-internal:8201    follower    true
```

Vault with integrated storage (Raft) is now ready to use!

#### External mode

The Helm chart may be run in external mode. This installs no Vault server and
relies on a network addressable Vault server to exist.

Install the latest Vault Helm chart in external mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
    --set "global.openshift=true" \
    --set "injector.externalVaultAddr=http://external-vault:8200"
```

## Tutorial

Refer to the [Integrate a Kubernetes Cluster with an
External Vault](https://learn.hashicorp.com/vault/getting-started-k8s/external-vault)
tutorial to learn how to use an external Vault within a Kubernetes cluster.

Commit message:

docs: add note about requiring 3.6+ helm (#15480)

website/content/docs/platform/k8s/helm/openshift.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Running Vault - OpenShift
description: >-
  Vault can run directly on OpenShift in various configurations.  For
  pure-OpenShift workloads, this enables Vault to also exist purely within
  Kubernetes.
---

# Run Vault on OpenShift

~> **Important Note:** This chart is not compatible with Helm 2. Please use Helm 3.6+ with this chart.

The following documentation describes installing, running, and using
Vault and **Vault Agent Injector** on OpenShift.

~> **Note:** We recommend using the Vault agent injector on Openshift
instead of the Secrets Store CSI driver. OpenShift
[does not recommend](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-hostpath.html)
using `hostPath` mounting in production or
[certify Helm charts](https://github.com/redhat-certification/chart-verifier/blob/dbf89bff2d09142e4709d689a9f4037a739c2244/docs/helm-chart-checks.md#table-2-helm-chart-default-checks)
using CSI objects because pods must run as privileged. If you would like to run the Secrets Store
CSI driver on a development or testing cluster, refer to
[installation instructions for the Vault CSI provider](/docs/platform/k8s/csi/installation).

## Requirements

The following are required to install Vault and Vault Agent Injector
on OpenShift:

- Cluster Admin privileges to bind the `auth-delegator` role to Vault's service account
- Helm v3.6+
- OpenShift 4.X
- Vault Helm v0.6.0+
- Vault K8s v0.4.0+

~> **Note:** Support for Consul on OpenShift is available since [Consul 1.9](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/introducing-openshift-support-for-consul-on-kubernetes). However, for highly available
deployments, Raft integrated storage is recommended.

## Additional Resources

The documentation, configuration and examples for Vault Helm and Vault K8s Agent Injector
are applicable to OpenShift installations. For more examples see the existing documentation:

- [Vault Helm documentation](/docs/platform/k8s/helm)
- [Vault K8s documentation](/docs/platform/k8s/injector)

## Helm Chart

The [Vault Helm chart](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-helm)
is the recommended way to install and configure Vault on OpenShift.
In addition to running Vault itself, the Helm chart is the primary
method for installing and configuring Vault Agent Injection Mutating
Webhook.

While the Helm chart automatically sets up complex resources and exposes the
configuration to meet your requirements, it **does not automatically operate
Vault.** You are still responsible for learning how to monitor, backup, upgrade,
etc. the Vault cluster.

~> **Security Warning:** By default, the chart runs in standalone mode. This
mode uses a single Vault server with a file storage backend. This is a less
secure and less resilient installation that is **NOT** appropriate for a
production setup. It is highly recommended to use a [properly secured Kubernetes
cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/securing-a-cluster/),
[learn the available configuration
options](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/configuration), and read the [production deployment
checklist](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run#architecture).

## How-To

### Install Vault

To use the Helm chart, add the Hashicorp helm repository and check that you have
access to the chart:

@include 'helm/repo.mdx'

-> **Important:** The Helm chart is new and under significant development.
Please always run Helm with `--dry-run` before any install or upgrade to verify
changes.

Use `helm install` to install the latest release of the Vault Helm chart.

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault
```

Or install a specific version of the chart.

@include 'helm/install.mdx'

The `helm install` command accepts parameters to override default configuration
values inline or defined in a file. For all OpenShift deployments, `global.openshift`
should be set to `true`.

Override the `server.dev.enabled` configuration value:

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
    --set "global.openshift=true" \
    --set "server.dev.enabled=true"
```

Override all the configuration found in a file:

```shell-session
$ cat override-values.yml
global:
  openshift: true

server:
  ha:
    enabled: true
    replicas: 5
##
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
    --values override-values.yml
```

#### Dev mode

The Helm chart may run a Vault server in development. This installs a single
Vault server with a memory storage backend.

-> **Dev mode:** This is ideal for learning and demonstration environments but
NOT recommended for a production environment.

Install the latest Vault Helm chart in development mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
    --set "global.openshift=true" \
    --set "server.dev.enabled=true"
```

#### Highly Available Raft Mode

The following creates a Vault cluster using the Raft integrated storage backend.

Install the latest Vault Helm chart in HA Raft mode:

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
  --set='global.openshift=true' \
  --set='server.ha.enabled=true' \
  --set='server.ha.raft.enabled=true'
```

Next, initialize and unseal `vault-0` pod:

```shell-session
$ oc exec -ti vault-0 -- vault operator init
$ oc exec -ti vault-0 -- vault operator unseal
```

Finally, join the remaining pods to the Raft cluster and unseal them. The pods
will need to communicate directly so we'll configure the pods to use the internal
service provided by the Helm chart:

```shell-session
$ oc exec -ti vault-1 -- vault operator raft join http://vault-0.vault-internal:8200
$ oc exec -ti vault-1 -- vault operator unseal

$ oc exec -ti vault-2 -- vault operator raft join http://vault-0.vault-internal:8200
$ oc exec -ti vault-2 -- vault operator unseal
```

To verify if the Raft cluster has successfully been initialized, run the following.

First, login using the `root` token on the `vault-0` pod:

```shell-session
$ oc exec -ti vault-0 -- vault login
```

Next, list all the raft peers:

```shell-session
$ oc exec -ti vault-0 -- vault operator raft list-peers

Node                                    Address                        State       Voter
----                                    -------                        -----       -----
a1799962-8711-7f28-23f0-cea05c8a527d    vault-0.vault-internal:8201    leader      true
e6876c97-aaaa-a92e-b99a-0aafab105745    vault-1.vault-internal:8201    follower    true
4b5d7383-ff31-44df-e008-6a606828823b    vault-2.vault-internal:8201    follower    true
```

Vault with integrated storage (Raft) is now ready to use!

#### External mode

The Helm chart may be run in external mode. This installs no Vault server and
relies on a network addressable Vault server to exist.

Install the latest Vault Helm chart in external mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install vault hashicorp/vault \
    --set "global.openshift=true" \
    --set "injector.externalVaultAddr=http://external-vault:8200"
```

## Tutorial

Refer to the [Integrate a Kubernetes Cluster with an
External Vault](https://learn.hashicorp.com/vault/getting-started-k8s/external-vault)
tutorial to learn how to use an external Vault within a Kubernetes cluster.
